A Day Using Only FOSS
2012-08-29

As a Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) ideologue, I think about
my implicit and explicit use of various software systems daily (if
not hourly). I would love nothing more than to be able to not use
any proprietary softare or hardware in my daily existence;
However, there are a myriad things that I could not do then such
as:
    - Drive my car
	- Use a cellphone
      While there are are FOSS apps available and FOSS software
	  systems, almost of the firmware is proprietary (If I recall
	  correctly)
    - Use a microwave oven
    - Use a gas/electric oven
    - Use a washing machine
    - Use a gas/electric clothes dryer
    - Use a gas/electric hot water heater
    - Use a modern refridgerator
    - Check out a book from the public library (the barcode scanner etc.)
    - Perform my job as a web developer. I need to test my code
	  against Safari, Chrome, and IE.
	- Use any of my guns to hunt. All of them were made in a
	  factory using proprietary designs, equipment, machine firmware,
	  etc.
	- Print a digital document.

This list is clearly non-exhaustive; These ares simply the things
that I could think of off of the top of my head. Granted, some of
these activities could be done using only FOSS hardware and
software, but I would have to build them myself - none of these
systems/objects exist in a form where I can simply go to the store
and purchase one. And no person has enough time, or money, to
build each of these things for themself.

    This train of thought has been running around in my head for
months. I find it almost shamefull that I continue to use
proprietary hardware and software on a daily basis. I am disgusted
with myself because while I extoll the virtues of FOSS, I turn
around and take a hot shower, or use a microwave oven - and fall
into complacency with proprietary systems.

In keeping with this train of thought, I am going to try and
simplify my life so that I use a minimal amount of proprietary
systems. I am going to get rid of most of my computers and replace
them with a single, all FOSS machine. Even this set of actions is
frought with pitfalls: I will need to figure out some entirely
FOSS way to do cross-browser compatibility testing. I will need to
ensure that I can get this machine to connect to my employer's
crazy networking scheme (This is actually the biggest issue that I
foresee). And, I will need to make sure that I can do everything
that I would ever need to using only this machine.

I will keep posting here with updates on how this journey goes -
assuming that I can get this server migrated from Ubuntu Server to
a Free OS without incident!
